---
layout: post
title: "errata"
date: 2023-09-27
categories: misc
---

here are some collected documents that i haven't posted yet. most of these are from a course on autobiography that i'm taking! these are all on the darker side and intentionally experiment with the bending of truth and weaving it with fiction. nothing in here is supposed to be purely autobiographical, but rather partially hallucinated, maybe occurring in a universe far from ours, else in here, and some between!

### skin from flesh from bone

There is a constant valorization of mental illness in society; that which exists as a DSM category is something to be identified with, memed about, spun into a product with its its debilitating symptoms being ground away until nothing remains but a smooth and finished product; no spines that can hurt, pose a threat, or stab another. It becomes a smooth identity to be joked about, that I’m just so-OCD; that this behavior makes it look like you’re on the spectrum; he’s so depressed; or, she’s just ADHD. Malignant symptoms can be reduced to just mere quirks without ever understanding the minima which the ill brain finds itself in. Avoiding these wrapped-up DSM terms is necessary to have a truthful discussion about mental illness.

There are days in which it hurts to be alive, where your brain feels as if it’s being dragged across broken glass, stuck within looping thought that you can’t break out of. There are no other thoughts besides the one, going back and forth from one hemisphere to another as a mental kidney stone. Thoughts scrape on through the corpus callosum, with each crystal digging its way through, leaving blood, torn tissue, and scars in its wake. If your brain can’t escape this, what’s the point? These thoughts can’t keep happening and happening, committing blasphemies against everything you hold dear. 

It’s easy to separate yourself from the man screaming and raving on the street, yelling about the sins of society and the eyes of G-d upon them, to brand them as insane. They likely are. They are also a person, one which you are far closer to being than you’d like to be. All it takes is one mental slip, one molecule gone awry in the brain. There’s a recent video of a lady yelling about a haunted plane, with people selling it for laughs. Nothing to laugh about there. She’s in clear pain, a danger to herself, and those on the plane. I’ve seen the fear in her eyes in my own reflection. 

### epitaph found in the trash

What shall I say?
why cry or be bitter?
If my father in heaven has decreed upon me
and has maimed me with an immutable deformity
then I do not wish to remove it.
the sorrow of the impossible is a human pain that nothing will cure
and for which no comfort can be found.

Kalonymus ben Kalonymus (1322 A.D.)

Contrary to popular belief, E-------- died on May 14th, 2021, which may have come as a surprise to many, as his haggard, falling apart body ambled from the second-floor men’s bathroom of the theater building (which his uncle had previously worked in before being fired due to the state of Texas’ chronic avoidance to pay pension plans) into the room across the hall, featuring a showing of *A Taxi Driver* populated exclusively by people she would later command as president of her fraternity. Before beginning the transit back into the auditorium to play a game of Kleenex-baseball, he had just gazed into the mirror, looking into one for the first time since the pandemic and finding his reflection aged, a Norwood about grandfatherly, and felt himself falling, falling through the reflection until he was on the frigid marble floor, absorbing the rising heat through his stomach and into his mouth as he held back his vomit. However, the undead live for a while, and the prodrome of an infection lasts a long while.

The onset of an infection is marked by a lack of joy, emotion, anything but an all-totalizing exhaustion as if one were trying to speak beyond one-way glass. “One day at a time” is a common adage, but as the days stack higher into years and the prospect of living your life like this becomes more insurmountable, both paths offer resistance. So, I came out to my partner at the time.
	
Now, I had many opportunities to do this over the course of our relationship; at that point, we had dated for four years, and I had nearly come out to them a handful of times, but faced with the fact that I would die in my body, I set a time bomb that would not come to fruition for another two years (mind you, a amicable breakup - the breaker-upper in a relationship where the other partner has transitioned is often cast in an unflattering light, but it is what it is), and proceeded to do nothing but ask a friend what dysphoria felt like for another four months. At the end of that four months, I came within a hair of killing myself.

Earlier that week, I had run a half-marathon for the first time, setting an all-time speed record which, to this day, I haven’t beaten. Pain is often classified as one totalizing thing when there’s a few overlapping categories; the sexual, more of an ecstatic bliss when done correctly; the emotional, which needs no introduction; that done by external forces, paper cuts, etc.; and that done to oneself. If you really want to hurt yourself, those who care about you will stop you, and you find more inventive ways, running until you can’t walk anymore, with your ankles seizing up, barely able to walk to class. And it feels good. Then, nothing. A friend texted me on a night where I otherwise would have walked into traffic to watch Squid Game. It was the most miserable I had ever felt. 

And I waited. Waited on myself to be different, tried every way under the sun to fix myself, anything but what would work. Mushroom conversion therapy, working within my frat, trying to *man up*, all these to stabilize myself. And, faced with the possibility of waking up one day, realizing all the time I had wasted had amounted to nothing, that I would regret all this wasted time and go to my deathbed unhappy, I walked to the top floor of a parking garage (on which I would later come out to six friends on via phone, though in the opposite corner of this moment) and debate jumping off the top or calling to make an appointment for HRT. This was four months after my self-imposed deadline to make a decision.

My appointment would not be for another two months. Time has never stretched more to a crawl (though, now that I write that, I recall smoking too much weed once, getting in a time loop, and feeling as if I were trapped in eternity), agonizing over whether I had made the right choice, whether I would regret this too. On February 10th, 2022, I let a surprisingly-sweet pill dissolve under my tongue,
__________________________________________________________________

“When you became Denise, I told all of your colleagues, those clown comics, to fix their hearts or die.”
Gordon Cole (Twin Peaks)
	
Time picked up its pace. I went to Mexico City, traveled, picked a name and came out to six people at the end of March (though people suspected something was up on account of my suspiciously-smooth skin). I moved to Iowa, looking younger and younger, got called a faggot in Arkansas and on the side of the road in Rock Island, Illinois. I wore baggy shirts to work and contractors apologized to me for walking into the women’s bathroom before realizing that I was standing at the urinal. I wore baggier shirts. I had a panic attack and couldn’t look at myself in the mirror for two months. I lived alone in Iowa. I danced, alone, and for myself for the first time. And, ten months after that first dissolution, I woke up at 4:30 a.m. and recorded a video in which I came out to my frat and ran to become its president. I drove from Iowa to Austin and up to Maryland and haven’t boymoded since.

Well, I tried. The other deadline I missed was to come out to my family. Six months after my deadline, I still hadn’t met it, rolling up to my family’s Passover and outing myself by my existence. Not to my dad, for the concept of his fruity son being trans had never crossed his mind, but to my younger cousin, who attempted to out me to my grandmother for unknown reasons. I think that I should buy her a shirt with the words, “I think E------- has had a sex change” on the front. After coming out to my dad officially via letter, I was outed to my mom via a third party, culminating in the current out-to-everyone status I am negotiating with.
__________________________________________________________________

I could spend 50 years of my life trying to change, but I doubt if that would do anything. I know what I am. I like it, and I don’t want to change. The only thing I want to change is my body, so that it matches what I am. A body is like a covering; it’s like a shell. What is more important? The body or the person that is inside?

Jane Fry (1974)

Many trans people feel a certain wistfulness for the experiences they never had. Skill issue. The past is gone, all that you have is the present and the future. I can regret that I didn’t make a decision earlier, but not the effects of that, and resolve to change my behavior in the future. The hardest part of being trans is the full realization of the magnitude of each and every decision you make. And, yet, not making a decision is also one, as you lean more more into these ruts. They only get deeper with time.
__________________________________________________________________

In comes you, not the same person I knew
Looking roughly the same, but something hungry getting restless in your brain
So there I go, not the same person that you used to know
Peeking through the fisheye lens at you

Attention all Pickpockets, The Mountain Goats

### autobiography

I’m not completely sure that I exist. If a person is a continuous, coherent stream of memory, unbroken to the present day, with each memories’ facts fitting in with each other, H------- only came into existence this year, slowly awakening over the spring term to exist as the person who appears in this class. Not that I don’t have memories before, say, March 2023, but rather they’re fragmentary. I remember sitting in my great-grandmother’s watercolor room, watching her paint thick stripes of lavender across a canvas, watching the pigment diffuse through the water, the paper absorbing it until colors affix themself to form a whole. I remember working in my family store, talking to older men about suits and clothing, serving them whiskey in crystal glasses and attending to their every need; fixing computers and building my family’s website. I remember falling off of my father’s car in the first grade, colliding with a license plate which perfectly cut through half of my thigh, through skin, fat, muscle, and nerves, revealing a cross-section unparalleled by that of college-level biology textbooks, causing issues which persist to this day for which I cannot wear Converse, else the occasional electric impulse runs from my second toe through my calf, knee, and into my hip, shocking me to the present. 

All of these happened to a Hazel, or at least an individual in the set which currently includes myself, but not necessarily me if one is to be this coherent collection of memories, as some memories do not make sense given the context of others, so that the mindscape appears more as an abstract painting than a landscape. It is impossible for an outsider to square away working in a men’s clothing shop for ten years with my current experiences. She who currently exists may not always, given time. Not to say that I am an amnesiac, but rather that my current experience is my predominant narrative in such a way that past versions of me would fail to recognize myself. So, any autobiographical narrative would necessarily be set in the present day, with a telling of the past split between faint recollections, those impulses of pain and scars upon my body recalling points in the distant past, and those stark contrasts in which a current action fails to cohere with that of the past. Otherwise, this is not a linear narrative.

As I write this now, I use a laptop which I obtained in high school, where I worked in an engineering company which solely employed men on the engineering side and women on the secretarial side. There, I was in charge of archiving documents, digitizing them, and forming them into a database so that the engineers may reference old reports. At the end of this lonely experience, I was gifted this laptop. That is how can I remember that summer, through the object currently used. My memory involuntarily recalls a past that I do not feel subject to. The stickers upon it, placed on in such a way that the original back is no longer visible, create an archeology. The lowest stickers, barely visible, are from skateboard companies; from the time where I learned to skate, one of the small continuations into the present. The middle stickers account for the time I was the captain of a robotics team; the higher stickers recording my entry into university, choice of major, and organization. Any autobiography of mine must work equally as an archeology, viewing surface formations and deciding to excavate into the hard clay of the past.

### jane eyre

People enjoy traveling because they need not exist. Each fleeting, ephemeral interaction away does not not have an impact on the life lived at home without intention to do so. In each conversation, one is freed to act as they please, the typical cause and effect of relationships within networks approaching zero. One is free to reinvent themselves, act as they truly are, or as they would like to be. When fed up with their existence, they are free to take a break from it, at least for a time, without engaging with the final departure from it. Otherwise, it is the penultimate revision one can make to their own autobiography. Such is the case in Jane Eyre. Though her first attempts at dissolution and reconstruction fail from a lack of knowledge as to her own agency in this matter, her final travels and her later refusal to the call of India allowed her to engage in this act of rewriting one’s life.

Her first departure is that from Gateshead to Lowood, one of the more interesting ventures in the novel, as she exhibits some agency in the matter; in the dialogue between her and Mr. Lloyd, she exhibits a cognizance of her situation, the necessity to balance an excitement to leave the estate while attempting not to seem too overjoyed at the possibility of leaving to prevent her aspiration being quashed. However, despite this agency, she demonstrates only a limited ability for change, likely due to her young age. In Gateshead, she is depressive and oppositional, most evident in her dialogue preceding that with Lloyd, “‘I have never cried for such a thing in my life; I hate going out in the carriage. I cry because I am miserable’” (Brontë 26). Afterward at Lowood, she does change as she matures, but this would happen regardless of the move; the main difference being the lightening of her depression as she socializes outside of her family. Her oppositional streak remains strong and extends to Helen, as she takes an insulting note upon her head written by Miss Scatcherd and “thrust it into the fire,” in the name of all the anger that Helen could not feel (Brontë 76). However, due to her age, she fails to grow with intentionality.

Her next move was of necessity, leaving her without the agency required for rewriting oneself; the move from Lowood to Thornfield. Her impetus for leaving is that of Miss Temple’s departure; she feels unmoored from Lowood and must seek employment, and here she does not have agency, instead attributing her thoughts to “a kind fairy”, abstracting her thoughts from her actions (Brontë 89). And so, she moves to another place. This is not to say that she does not undergo changes during Thornfield, but she does not yet engage in the active, agentic act of self-creation that travel allows, for she has not yet exercised her own power. However, the impetus for change arrives in that of the situation between her and Rochester.

There is rarely a stronger reason for departure than that of an intervention on the altar. Jane Eyre has finally found what she seeks subconsciously, the relinquishing of her agency to another power (why else would she relegate her decisions to that of a kind fairy, or thoughts coming from outside her mind?) in the act of marriage before that is ruined. Thus, she has to confront her own ability as an autonomous agent for the first time. These voices, all that subconscious thought that tells her that she ought to relinquish her agency to another earthly power, goad her, asking her “‘Who in the world cares for you? or who will be injured by what you do?” (Brontë 312). This is the distillation of her subconscious, in turn shaped by the self-sacrifice to men that has been expected of her throughout her life, as was common in the Victorian era, and is still all too common today. Her subjugation at the words of “all of John Reed’s violent tyrannies’” and those in the name of Brocklehurst at the deficiencies of Lowood (though these were apparently “mortifying” to him) (Brontë 18, 86). Jane Eyre finally exercises her full agency in her declaration, no longer abstract thought, that “‘I care for myself. The more solitary, the more friendless, the more unsustained I am, the more I will respect myself.’” With that, the spark for change through travel is lit.

Unmoored from what little life she had at Thornfield, she sets off with no plan; exercising her willpower is like a child taking its first steps; it’s clumsy, awkward, and may end in disaster. And ultimately, it leads to a skill all are capable of. She ends up at Marsh End, where at this point no one knows nothing of her past, and takes her first steps at revision by taking the name “Jane Elliot”. This name carries no expectations with it aside from what she would like to take: her education and her status of solitude. She is able to do this precisely because of travel. In this place, no one knows her, there are no expectations put on her (outside of that generally expected of society of a woman), and thus, she is able to form, erase, and revise facts about her life to build a new person. This is not a phenomenon limited to the Victorian era - modern-day philosopher Agnes Callard makes a polemic against travel in a recent essay, claiming that, “Socrates said that philosophy is a preparation for death. For everyone else, there’s travel” (Callard).

We all experience one inevitable cessation of identity, but travel is a way to engage with it in a less fatal way, as it allows us to reconstruct ourselves as Jane Eyre does. And through this, she finally makes a choice of a “service of poverty and obscurity” (Brontë 348). It is her own. She becomes her own person, her oppositional qualities gaining strength during her dialogue with St. John in “I scorn your idea of love, [...] I scorn the counterfeit sentiment you offer: yes, St. John, and I scorn you when you offer it” (Brontë 401). This unity of thought and action proves the change in her character, as well as showing that she no longer keeps the depressive languishing as she had in prior years close to her. At Marsh End, she has been able to create herself as a new person - even with her inheritance - and she chooses to exemplify her strongest traits. However, with this new full force of personhood, she must set out again, and finds herself at Ferndean.

Jane Eyre chose to return to Rochester at Ferndean; it is a most curious choice for a woman who has rewritten herself to return to a place that knows her in an antiquated way. However, Rochester has now been changed, not through his own choices, but calamity, taking his eyes and hand. He too is a new person, and with this, Jane Eyre may exist as who she has chosen to be. “And reader, do you think I feared him in his blind ferocity? - if you do, you little know me,” exemplifies this change in positions of power (Brontë 423). Eyre has come into her own, with a full force of personhood behind her (not to mention a large sum which ensures that she may remain self-sustaining), while Rochester is but a fraction of what he was in the prior year. Thus, in the space of the relationship between the two, Jane Eyre is able to take up a larger share of personality; this is why she does not flee as she has before. She has been able to revise what makes her through her travels and keep them while remaining with Rochester.

Travel is what one makes of it; many go places and return unchanged. It is also, if employed correctly, such a catalyst for change as one is untethered from that which maintains their current self. Jane Eyre, through her travels, discovers such a catalyst, bringing to the forefront her strongest traits and leaving behind those which no longer suit her in her capacity for self-revision - a capacity which all have.

