---
layout: post
title: "wgs 345 autobiography"
date: 2023-10-15
categories: misc
---

### final project

some frontmatter -- i wrote this for a class as a final project.

---

“A body is like a covering; it’s like a shell. What is more important? The body or the person that is inside?”

—Being Different: The Autobiography of Jane Fry
	
I take off the corner of 24th and Lamar, rubber soles eroding into the pavement; they were once ridged about ½“ thick, now just a thin surface above the white midsection that’s started to show through on the balls of my feet. Walking on my toes is a habit I’ve had since I was a kid, walking across the draft-frozen tile floor to get a glass of water in the morning. I was repeatedly instructed not to do that and walk normally, and it was not until I was in kindergarten that the repeated comments on E---- walking strangely that I would stop. Though, it came back in full force as an adult, and shoeless in my household or sprinting down Pease Park my calves support the whole of my weight. Childhood habits return with a vengeance.
	
Another such habit is reading. There’s a certain tendency of those among my demographic to feel dissatisfaction or disconnect in their bodies. Escapism, either by reading, or as an adult, by internet use, gaming, etc., is a common method of avoiding this reality. I think this is the reason why the groups I belong to are overrepresented in the media and on the internet. On some sort of subconscious level – it is rare that a child has the correct words to express this disconnect – I picked up on the felt sense in my body and retreated into literature instead. In Dallas, there’s the Mayor’s Summer Reading Program, where if one reads a certain number of minutes per day over the summer, they are eligible for prizes. There was not a single summer of my childhood where I did not miss a prize. If I remember correctly – one of the many challenges in writing this autobiography is that I have a particularly hazy memory of my childhood – my mother had to set an upper limit on books that I was allowed to check out from the library at 10-12 per week. Though the disconnect from my body is largely gone today, the hyperlexia has stayed, every moment of my life must be punctuated with some form of reading. Text-based social media often fills this role, but I have found that if I am not using social media, I often have the temptation (and fail to resist) to pull a book out of my backpack and read during class while I take notes simultaneously. It’s a compulsion of the highest pull.
	
On the topic of compulsions, those are the last category of actions which establish the worn common line of my childhood. I had to take two daily showers until I was in high school and there are still blemishes on my skin from where I feel obligated to remove a defect. The latter is buried so deep that I will likely not be able to remove it. I took an anti-anxiety medicine that had the side effect of stopping these compulsions, but other side effects reduced my academic performance and made it difficult to wake up and go for a run, so I had to stop.
	
Further south, I pass by Shoal Creek. In the warmer Austin mornings, running is incredibly unpleasant with the humidity smothering every pore in one’s body, making it feel like one is inhaling the Gulf Coast. However, the eastward wind at 6 A.M. blows across the creek, which is at a lower temperature than its surroundings, cooling the air and crashing the humidity into a low-lying fog that, for about 100 feet, marks the most pleasant point of the run. If one runs too close to the creek as I will later, construction runoff and stagnant water make an unpleasant sewage smell. Only at the MLK and Lamar intersections are the conditions perfect for running.
	
This effect has been replicated in two places. I lived in the same place for 19 years of my life two miles southwest of White Rock Lake in Dallas, the hub for my favorite activity, biking. Though I cannot bike in Austin – I have tried and as repayment, both of my bikes have been stolen – it was a feature of my childhood and one of the first examples of independence. My father attempted to teach me to bike in the first grade. On the first day of lessons, my brother and I were on top of my dad’s car, sliding down the car hood, and as we had done fifty times before, we landed on our feet. E---- and Aiden were called over to grab the bikes, and as I was walking, my brother turned and screamed. My dad, turning the corner, did the same. My dad’s side of the family is very squeamish about blood owing to a genetic abnormal vasovagal response that causes my father, grandfather, and brother to faint on appearance of blood (I inherited this too but am forced to deal with it as I have dealt with much more blood in my life than any of the above). And, as I looked, blood was dripping from E----‘s leg. Later, I would take biology, which has these textbooks with beautiful, detailed illustrations of the epidermis, fatty layers, and muscle that I would be able to recall from memory of the gash. The human body is much more like a biology textbook than we want to believe. That marked the end of bike lessons – I had to teach myself when I was in sixth grade so that I could bike to the store to pick up groceries or bike to my friends’ houses who were in the wealthy areas adjacent to the lake. 
	
The other body of water dear to my heart is the Upper Mississippi. If White Rock were the lake that birthed my independence, my personhood is tied to the banks of Davenport, Iowa. One of my favorite teachers in high school had a saying that students were not people until they were juniors in high school; I received the gift of personhood much later. In my junior year of college, COVID interrupted my fraught relationship with my body. The run in which this recollection is situated is from this time (I now run around campus at 6 A.M., three days a week, for safety); this was a last-ditch attempt to force my mind’s unity with my body. The failing of this relationship coincided with the stressors of school, romantic relationship, and a renewed visibility with the end of quarantining that I could not handle, and my body and I ended up working in a chemical factory in Muscatine, Iowa for the latter half of 2022.
	
The plant is the largest structure in town. I-beams jut up from the earth, supporting alien vessels banging, hissing, and shooting off clouds of steam. Three tanks, visible from ten miles away if one stops to pick up food at the gas station on the other edge of town, sit on the banks of the Mississippi, spilling out into it; the plant takes out as much as it takes in to compensate for the heat coming off the vessels. At night, the furnace on the west side of the plant burns red. It is a great place to keep warm during one’s shift. The days where I would pull into the parking lot and hear a train’s roar from the west side were the longest; instead of burning, the furnace would be spewing chemicals into the air to short-circuit the process. More than the people, this time in my life is mechanical. I wished that my body would work like the machines with their rhythmic hisses. Something must work.

---

“…while gender is a construct, so is a traffic light, and if you ignore either of them, you get hit by cars. Which, also, are constructs.”

—Imogen Binnie, Nevada
	
I’ve hit two deer with my car. For the first, I was in the car with Dominic, Hana, and Harsha, all members of my fraternity. We had collectively made the ill-advised decision to go on a camping trip in the winter and paid for our actions in the silent chilled car, desperately hoping that the heat would turn on faster before slamming into the first at forty-five miles per hour, crumpling the hood of my car, driver-side bumper, side panels, and door, my headlight emerging into a burst of sparks and the deer turning into an object fifty feet behind us. It didn’t die from the car; it died from the hunters who pulled up behind us, asked us if we “were going to take care of that”, picked it to it’s feet, let it walk it off to the forest, shot it in the head with the car watching, threw it in the back of their truck, and told us “if the police ask, it ran away”. This left us with a broken car, blood on the pavement, and a more perfect silence.
	
The second was in West Virginia, one of the most incorrectly dismissed states in the Union. The Appalachians are beautiful, only marred by the same societal ills that recur elsewhere. I was contemplating this at ninety miles per hour and (driving faster than I ought to due to the fact that it was my (later) ex and I’s anniversary and wanted to make it to their house in time) slammed into a deer, mercifully sucking it under my car rather than over, which gives it a quicker death and my car less damage. I reassessed the damage (missing chunk of bumper, broken wiper fluid reservoir) and made it to my ex’s three minutes before our anniversary ended. 	My ex, who’s name I cannot bring my self to write, had stayed up for our fifth anniversary, settled into the disposition of someone awaiting their high school sweetheart. This was the last day out of the next year not marred by argument. It is difficult to admit that, in a relationship, neither have fallen out of love but without the constant mold of the other physically in their life have become a different, incompatible shape that nevertheless retains dry creek beds and oxbows where a river used to flow.
	
We had both changed in unpredictable ways. A reader may have noticed my use of “they” to refer to my partner, and this has both been done to provide some additional anonymity for them and that they had experienced some form of gender dysphoria. They had also become much more left-wing in college, which is understandable given their upbringing in Catholicism – there was only one direction in which they could choose. Unfortunately, while religion may fade, the need to proselytize remained, and they were quite great at this type of argument, being one of the most intelligent people that I have had the pleasure of knowing. There exists the narcissism of small differences, and we would argue constantly over the littlest nuance. To this relationship based on debate’s end, after our eventual breakup, we would later hold a debriefing talk about the failures of the relationship. Many people find this strange.
	
Upon finding out the quantity of deer that have died at my hands, people are often curious how it is possible for someone to do this. It is quite easy. Driving into the path of a deer is much easier than not doing so. The aftermath – body, blood, metal – is the difficult part. The inevitable arc of a relationship to its end is the same. Our relationship lasted for six years, non-trivial at the age of twenty-two, and thus it is impossible to write without mentioning this quarter of my life. The story starts like this:
	
We were invited by a mutual friend to Café Brazil, a lovely hole-in-the-wall in the middle of Deep Ellum, itself not exactly the place a group of fifteen-year-olds would be allowed to go to without the benefit of the lenience of parents. Halfway through the dinner, she poured tabasco into a shot glass for her fries; I leaned over and bet that she couldn’t take it as a shot. “If I do, you’re going to buy me a donut”, she countered, downing the hot sauce before I could respond. From then on, our end of the table might have well been an island from the rest of the group. I brought a donut – a nice one, from my favorite place, not just Dunkin Donuts – to school the next day. We were dating by the end of the month.
	
A few years later, COVID struck, me looking decidedly older than her despite our two-month separation. When we were in high school, we had retreated to each other’s houses as a respite from our own, but the pandemic made it impossible. We got in my car – a car I would later crash in a five-car pileup driving her home from Thanksgiving the same year – and drove across Texas so we could escape, at least for a bit. We stayed in Austin, Houston, College Station, and on the coast. This brief glimpse of freedom characterized the relationship at its best. 
	
Unfortunately, we were too alike. The issues with their body and gender identity had been present in myself, something that I had decided at a younger age that I would not deal with. However, avoidance is not the best method, just providing a fertile soil of anxiety to sprout worse thoughts. During COVID, this came to a head; something had to be done. This was the end of the relationship; this was the only way it could have happened.

---
	
“It's a miracle....The stars have risen,
 Hastily, across the wide windows
 Where the melted gold pours.”

—Renée Vivien, The Muse of the Violets
	
There are three places other than Texas which hold a special place in my heart, the first being the aforementioned Davenport, the second Mexico City, and the third the mountain West. The first time I went was right after the winter storm, during which my three roommates and I had lost power in our splinter-riddled apartment as well as heat, keeping five to a bed to prevent hypothermia and failing. This stretched a friend and I to our absolute limits; she realized the fragility of her life and decided to take her life into her own hands. She is a person I could write ten thousand words about and still find room for more; she is a former men’s all-American wrestler who lives an amazing life in Brooklyn and is so dear to my heart. At this breaking point, we decided to pack into my car and drive one thousand miles west to Zion. There, surely, it would be better.
	
It started hailing sixteen hours into our trip, dropping to temperatures just above 0 and with it our well-intentioned plans to camp, sleeping together in our trunk again for warmth. Miserable from our subsequent events with the frost, we pulled into a diner. The next twelve hours were the most precarious of my life at that time, descending down an icy mountain pass to the valley below, through a blizzard, and finally setting up camp in Arizona. On the third day, we came to Zion. We set up camp on the side of a less-traveled highway, stream running through the southern portion of the camp, trees shading my car – in which I typically sleep in the trunk – and Nat’s tent. Four inches of snow layered the ground that morning. 
	
Despite being in the most wondrous part of America, with red plunging valleys opening to a frosted landscape; crimson canyons etched through time and weather to cast long shadows and channel the slicing wind through our winter jackets; plateaus rising out of grey valleys above the roof of my car such that they began to feel like an enclosure, Nat is at the forefront of the memory of this trip. Oftentimes the well-traveled people I meet seem to not have gained anything from a trip. They come, they see, they leave. Travel without transformative experience, growth, variety, and variance remains nothing but an exercise in spending money. And without people, there is little chance for transformation.
	
There is a shared experience of meeting someone like yourself. To communicate effectively and deeply requires a shared basis of knowledge – the human experience is such that anyone can share this knowledge with others – but if two come from ground similar in composition, this process is hastened, and Nat is one such soul. This is what I remember from my first time in the West.
	
---

“…vanity of vanities; all is vanity.”

—Ecclesiastes 1:2
	
One of the most detestable sentiments I come across comes in the following form, that the world is bad and therefore it is unethical to bring children into this world. Many arguments are displeasing to me; this is the worst of the bunch. On the former part of this horrific phrase, the interlocutor claims that the world is bad. This is not so. The trivial reply is to ask the claimant that if this world is so terrible, why does the claimant not remove themselves from it? This reply is trivial because very few believe the world to be so bad that they would eject themselves upon reply. There exist the committed few who believe in the continuation of life for them and no one else given that they had no chance to enter this world. For those who get past the trivial argument, the more appealing argument is that the world is not actually bad; merely, bad things happen in it.
	
This issue is particularly pressing to me due to the circumstances of the pandemic; specifically, those which occurred in the first few uncertain months. After having a particularly terrible first semester of college, I was thrown into the second, which became much worse in the days leading to spring break. Then we were all home.
	
I lived in the same house for nineteen years of my life. Upon entering the front door, one will be greeted with a front room once decorated with red and white furniture, now cramped with my great-grandmother’s Eastern furniture collection; the living room is immediately connected through an arch, with the kitchen (once separated with an extra door and black-and-white tiles, now opened to the rest of the house with stone tile) adjacent. If one takes a left instead of moving forward, they will meet a cramped hallway with my father’s room to the right, the one bathroom in the center, and (formerly) my brother and I’s shared ten feet by ten feet bedroom to the left. The house was meant to be a starter home, made evident by the issues with the sharing of such a small space between my brother, father, and I.
	
Every night I slept in my old bedroom death would be on my chest. A force would drive into my ribs, splitting skin from bone, paralyzing my lungs, and speeding my heart; my limbs being frozen to the sides of the mattress. Sleep was impossible. I found that sleeping on the couch would lead to the same sleeplessness – partially because death would still hold a fast grip on my heart, but more practically because a friend in middle school had sat on the couch too quickly, creating a permanent downward bow in the frame that would not be fixed. 
	
Evading this thought during the night pushed it to the day and I began to find myself in a haze far from home. Walking stopped my brain from turning itself in circles and quieted it; almost instinctually, walks became a part of my days, first starting at three miles, expanding to five, then seven, and finally I would find myself on the other side of the Dallas, walking through the lake, downtown, over the river, and into the arts district without noticing, walking for the entire day, unreachable by anyone.
	
Earlier in this course, I wrote an essay on the relational self (now that the grade has been submitted, I must admit that I wrote it in one sitting and submitted it without editing or proofreading). That essay drew upon these walks in another direction. These moments where death has gripped my heart stem occur during times of solitude, where I find myself, by choice or circumstance, alone. It is here where I find refuge in Kohelet (the speaker in Ecclesiastes). There, he struggles in finding the composition and existence of the eternal self and mourns for this, grappling with the human experience. Across time, he comforts me, severing the strings which suspend my heart, assuring me that nihilism is unwarranted with the presence of others.

---
		
“We are all trained to be female impersonators.”

—Gloria Steinem
	
E---- died in early May of 2021. This would come as a surprise to many people who knew him, most notably those who were on the upper floor of the theater building, who saw him shuffle in after spending thirty minutes in the restroom. The ambulation of the dead is possible, as all horror movies would let you know. Before the time of death, he had spent thirty minutes on the floor of the cold marble tile of the restroom holding back vomit. He failed. The mirror of the restroom rose over him from the sinks, reflecting the entire scene in detail, every movement arising to a level of self-consciousness giving way to another wave of nausea throwing him back onto the floor. 
	
This was not the first time at which he had been debilitated by a mirror, a fact which had caused him to avoid his own reflection for most of his life, but this was the first time he had vomited. The purge of his stomach gave way to an emptying of the brain. He was on the floor for hours, body heat seeping into the tile, the spots in the tile spiraling into each other forming a tunnel in which E---- was transported into, staying for an eternity as each of his limbs disconnected crawling away from a traitorous body though this would mean their death too. A lifetime flashed across the mirror ending differently than the one expunged into the toilet where he — in a decade or more – saw his reflection in a mirror and ended his own life rather than being expelled from him. His life fell, fell on tiles, shattering to dissonant shards which’s edges did not allow reassembly and these pieces scattered further and further to sand until they too blew away. 
	
His corpse picked itself up, circumambulated the spirit three times, and returned to the theater.
	
A body can live a long time when you haven’t told it that it died. Wondrously, not only was it able to walk back to the theater with its friends, but it was also able to get home and open Zoom for online class the next day. And the next. One would think the body indistinguishably different but for the fact that there was no self left in it, more of a golem than a person. The golem, possessed with intellect less a soul, recognizes its deficit. Others who knew of its prior self recognize the same. And yet, the body, afflicted with the expulsion of the soul due to a mismatch, lives on, this loss painfully aware to it. It knew that this would happen and knew that which would bind the soul and body yet did nothing. Whether this was due to a lack of knowledge, agency, or awareness is lost to time. Regardless, pained by the loss of a soul, it began the ritual, one which would not work as it is only for those who still have a spirit in their vessel.
	
It began the ritual. Though it had no spirit to bind, it, for the first time, began to have feeling. The first feeling was loss. Loss for all it had ignored, all the time it had wasted, all that it had missed, that which it had let fall through its hands like sand through a sieve. The second was sadness at this. One day, while walking through a well-shaded by towering oaks, light dappled through the leaves onto the bricks of the road with a light breeze at its back, it first felt joy. And it ceased to exist.
	
The place where I most miss living was my first apartment in Iowa. The building is in the National Register of Historic Places, a beautiful prewar building converted into apartments, of which mine was the best; a corner apartment with sixteen-foot ceilings, ten-foot windows creating the walls on the eastern and southern sides with exposed brick weaving its way between the windows and two large doors marking where an elevator lift to the alleyway outside once stood. The building had been several things in its life: a newspaper factory, a headquarters for a church, school, retail, been abandoned, and finally became something in which one could live. I woke up there.
	
Iowa is darkest during the winter. I woke up at 4:30 A.M., well before dawn, and cleaned my apartment, vacuuming the crumbs from the carpet, wiping off the counter, throwing out old food in my fridge, and going for a walk in the cold toward my favorite diner which has not yet adjusted to the invention of credit cards, being a cash-only establishment which serves the best food I have ever had the pleasure of eating. As always, I sat in the far back of the room, ordered a black coffee and corned beef omelet, and watched the world. The sun began to rise. Elderly people – the only customers who will filter in before the sun rises – filtered in. I finished my coffee. The waiter asked, “ma’am, would you like a refill?”. I will never turn down a cup of coffee, a trait inherited from my grandfather who at one point drank upward of a pot a day. I talked to the waitress, asked for my check, ordered an apple fritter to go, and began the trek across the city back to my home. And I was content.


