---
layout: post
title: "Ideology"
date: 2023-05-30
categories: misc
---

### i'm not very smart; please don't tell me what to believe

Oftentimes, people will read my writing, hear me speak, or judge me based upon various identity groups I belong to, and ascribe me into the role of a leftist, Democrat, etc. Please, do not do this! While it is true that I have argued for voting for Democrats and that I have argued for some leftist ideas (or more accurately, stated my dismay at the seeming self-defeatedness of any politics left-of-center), this is not what places me along partisan lines. I have some pretty strong critiques of Republicans as well - have they considered being more normal? People tend to like normal politics. The issue with me elevating more conservative ideas (ex. relaxation of regulations, permitting reform) is that I am less versed in them, and these issues are a lot more technical. Or in other words, not something I can talk off-the-cuff about.

People are often surprised at my pleas for ideological diversity because it is often a dogwhistle for the more annoying parts of the political spectrum; debate-bro is an insult for good reason. Justifying your beliefs is how you lose. But, in actuality, I enjoy being challenged on certain playing fields and appreciate the people in my life who make stellar examples of their ideologies. One of my favorite people to talk to is a conservative guy who exemplifies the best of his ideology - he's a hard worker, an honest man, and every action he makes reveals his good character. If conservatism in general were to conform to his actions, the world would be a better place. This is why I critique left and liberal policies so much - I want them to be better. There are several people I know who embody the spirit of liberalism, with a just sense and open hearts; those who are leftists with giving spirits and fire in their hearts for the better world. We would be in a better place if they were the ones to speak for movements.

That is not the world we live in. People are inherently good, but may be corrupted by the wear and tear of everyday life. Movements are rarely their best because the people in them are rarely their best selves. Thus, I find it hard to solidly wedge myself into a political box which I don't see fit for me. I am among those corrupted - I vote for people out of self-interest. Regardless, I believe in the better spirits of people; when an election is lower-stakes, I'll support those who I know are of the best character for the job, and I have found myself crossing party lines now and again. However, espousing these views makes little friends among either side, a frustrating experience in a polarized society.

Please do not tell me what to believe. If you're right, I'll come around to it.
