---
layout: post
title: "orlando"
date: 2024-03-02
categories: misc
---

to be honest, i thought that i had gotten my thoughts about gender out of my system when i wrote about trans women and modernity (note - i have not converted this to a digital format yet). it is not that i had written all that there is to write; the fact of gender relations is that it is a recurring blemish on the face of the world, prone to irritation and never quite gone, just concealed when convenient. i could not cover all that there is to do with gender both due to circumstance and lack of experience. for myself, reading orlando (by virginia woolf) reopened this freshly knit wound.

orlando begins as a story of a man at the sunset of his adolescence, captured by the trappings of that age and his time, doing right and wrong by women as is his nature. he is also in possession of a sum of money which contributes to his character by making that which he wants more easily accomplished. and suddenly, he finds himself a woman, all other circumstances of her being and situation but her time changed; her time being subjected to fits and spurts of movement as she lives hundreds of years over the course of much fewer.

outside of the text, woolf was inspired by a lover of hers -- vita sackville-west -- an interesting figure along. a person more interested in her list of lovers would be one much more interested in british literary history than me; regardless, the list is long and varied, mostly women up to the point of her husband, with whom she had an open marriage. with one of her lovers, violet keppel, she frequently appeared in public dressed as a man, and to these ends, she neither saw herself as consistently masculine or feminine; rather the force of these opposing personalities would rise to the surface at various points.

later, her and woolf entered into the relationship which sparked orlando; this relationship eventually came to an end both due to west's sexual tendencies and politics.

this serves as the backdrop for orlando, other facts fall where they may. the imagery and prose in this book are immaculate and enough to propel it into the list of the best books i've read this year, but what sets it apart is the slow cognizance of orlando in her new situation and the falling into place of social requirements, expectations, and fears, followed by the way she must conceive of herself as a result of her circumstances.

upon her transformation into a woman., she does not take it to be an avenue of inquiry but another fact of life. it is only after she flees her station and travels with the roma before appearing on deck of a homebound ship that she begins to realize the "penalties and privileges of her position". as many of us know, the events which bring her into this are ones of sexualization and paternalism, the former that a sailor can hardly bear the sight of her bare ankles without distraction, the latter being the captain's insistence that she eat a morsel of the fattier parts of meat as a treat for her delicate disposition. there is little delicate about orlando, her form changed as it may.

this is how many come into first knowledge of the circumstances of their sex; in the modern age as catcalls or worse. at some point for me a passing car in the night as i run changed from curiosity to a threat; for others at a much earlier age. the eyes of men seek to remind you of your sex when they can, and if not eyes then actions. and the smallest actions they can be. another branch for the fire was an interaction this morning at the front desk of a hostel in barcelona where i was waiting to break a 20. it was six in the morning and i had just gotten out of the shower, wearing only a t-shirt and jeans; a man and his downward-fixated eyes asked me if it was cold outside.

further, orlando finds that the expectations placed upon her are of a different sort, both in that of courtship and of chastity, these being of great importance in her time. safety is a recurring thorn as well.

one way in which women are reminded of their sex is in safety; this is partially a function of the ever-present sexualization, but also a matter of practicality. in general, men are stronger than women, and if a battle of will becomes that of physical strength, that side unfortunately tends to win. orlando is reminded of this first by peoples' insistence that she have a chaperone in public to escort her (she later evades these questions by dressing as a man to escape the issues that come with her new sex) and later this fear is instilled in her. from where this fear originates is left unstated, but sexualization, untoward advances, and expectation all likely play a part.

aside from the above, a last observation is that orlando questions the idea of a material sex. it would be silly to draw wide-ranging assumptions -- sackville-west was by all accounts an exceptional woman. regardless, this stuck out to me:

> she had been a gloomy boy, in love with death, as boys are; and then she had been amorous and florid; and then she had been sprightly and satirical; and sometimes she had tried prose and sometimes she had tried the drama. yet through these changes she had remained, she reflected, fundamentally the same. 

virginia woolf seems to believe that the target of her affection does not have a gendered soul but rather that the state of west's soul vacillates between qualities from time to time. to her credit, i am skeptical of gender metaphysics myself. at least externally, gender is something which society seems to assign, and anything internal has proven resistant to reason no matter the amount of effort spent on the task[^1]. orlando seems to imply that one may find themselves in a different station than that which they wish for and may make steps back to a more preferable one, though that journey may be trying.

[^1]: i have a misplaced feeling of longing for the times in which orlando spans. though a benefit mainly afforded to the wealthy, the ease at which authors like george sand and sackville-west could change their appearance[^2] under a less-discerning eye is enviable; they were able to achieve what sylvia plath later wished for.

[^2]: or if you want a different example, maybe nestor makhno or the chevalier d'eon.
