to be honest, i thought that i had gotten my thoughts about gender out of my system when i wrote about trans women and modernity (note - i have not converted this to a digital format yet). it is not that i had written all that there is to write; the fact od gender relations is that it is a recurring blemish on the face of the world, prone to irritation and never quite gone, just concealed when convenient. i could not cover all that there is to do with gender both due to circumstance and lack of experience. for myself, reading orlando (by virginia woolf) reopened this freshly-knit wound.

orlando begins as a story of a man at the sunset of his adolescence, captured by the trappings of that age and his time, doing right and wrong by women as is his nature. he is also in possession of a sum of money which contributes to his character by making that which he wants more easily accomplished. and suddenly, he finds himself a woman, all other circumstances of her being and situation but her time changed; her time being subjected to fits and spurts of movement as she lives hundreds of years over the course of much fewer.

outside of the text, woolf was inspired by a lover of her's -- vita sackville west -- an interesting figure along. a person more interested in her list of lovers would be one much more interested in british literary history than me; regardless, the list is long and varied, mostly women up to the point of her husband, with whom she had an open marraige. with one of her lovers, violet keppel, she frequently appeared in public dressed as a man, and to these ends, she neither saw herself as consistently masculine or feminine; rather the force of these opposing personalities would rise to the surface at various points.

later, her and woold entered into the relationship which sparked orlando; this relationshop eventually came to an end both due to west's sexual tendencies and politics.

this serves as the backdrop for orlando, other facts fall where they may. the imagery and prose in this book are immaculate and enough to propel it into the list of the best books i've read this year, but what sets it apart is the slow cognizance of orlando in her new situation and the falling into place of social requirements, expectations, and fears, followed by the way she must conceieve of herself as a result of her circumstances.

upon her transformation into a woman., she does not take it to be an avenue of inquiry but another fact of life. it is only after she flees her station and travels with the roma before appearing on deck of a homebound ship that she begins to realize the "penalties and privledges of her position". as many of us know, the events which bring her into this are ones of sexualization and paternalism, the former that a sailor can hardly bear the sight of her bare ankles without distraction, the latter being the captain's insistence that she eat a morsel of the fattier parts of meat as a treat for her delicate disposition. there is little delicate about orlando, her form changed as it may.

this is how many come into first knowledge of the circumstances of their sex; in the modern age as catcalls or worse. at some point for me a passing car in the night as i run changed from a curiousity to a threat; for others at a much earlier age. the eyes of men seek to remind you of your sex when they can, and if not eyes then actions. and the smallest actions they can be. another branch for the fire was an interaction this morning at the front desk of a hostel in barcelona where i was waiting to break a 20. it was six in the morning and i had just gotten out of the shower, wearing only a t-shirt and jeans; a man and his downward-fixated eyes asked me if it was cold outside.

further, orlando finds that the expectations placed upon her are of a different sort, both in that of courtship and of chastity, these being of great importance in her time. safety is a recurring thorn as well.

