---
layout: post
title: "The Invisible Majority"
date: 2023-05-29
categories: misc
---

### in which i reveal my pathological distaste for people claiming to speak for groups

In early April, Budweiser began a new campaign in an attempt to pivot away from its image of irresponsible fraternity drinking into advertising to the more respectable segment of American populace - transsexual alcoholics - by putting a popular (or so I’m told - I am lucky enough to have never used TikTok) trans woman named Dylan Mulvaney. For those who are not super online, or don’t watch Fox News (there is little sunlight between the two these days), Dylan is a trans woman who has meticulously documented every part of her transition on TikTok for the world to see; she has generated quite an audience, with over ten million followers on TikTok, as well as a sizeable group of detractors, most notably several congressional Republicans and one Matt Walsh, a right-wing political commentator known for his distaste toward the LGBT community. The latter group has held a successful boycott of the brand, using the inertia of their boycott to successfully campaign against other purported LGBT brands, such as Target. How did we get here?

Before I kick off the rest of this essay, let me compliment Mulvaney. As much as I hate the word “brave”, she is indeed much braver than I - broadcasting your transition to the world must be a…demanding task, to say the least. Rather than go through the mortifying ordeal of experiencing a second puberty as an adult in front of others, I began transitioning, moved to Iowa, and did not reveal that I had until ten-plus months after the fact. Even then, that doesn’t make it much better. It takes a strong person to do so. In the same way, I find Dylan’s unflinching kindness quite impressive; in the face of much less bullshit than her, I can be quite mean. I think she is a good person.

That being said, there is an inherent problem with representation that I will narrowly curtail to LGBT people, though you may extend it at will - oftentimes, those who advocate for a community have the least connection with the interest of its members. This is inherent to the role of being an activist or spokes(wo)man. Most people who are interested in doing so rise to the top for the sole reason that most people do not want to. Only an insane person would want to be the face of transgender activism (for good reason! Look at what Dylan Mulvaney, Buck Angel (yeah yeah I know), Zooey Zephyr, Erin Reed, etc. have had to go through) and this insanity filters for people who do not necessarily represent the community well, whether that be that their material conditions insulate them from the worst harms, that their mental state is particularly primed to be in the spotlight (like I said, insane), or that they are heterodox enough to catch flack from all sides. And some, I assume, are good people. Regardless, those who speak for a group are probably not going to represent the whole and may act in ways contrary to these interests.

When Dylan Mulvaney took the offer to be the Bud Light girl, I assume her logic went as follows: trans visibility is good -> Bud Light sponsorship helps with visibility (and, I assume a monetary bonus?) -> therefore, I should do the sponsorship. And according to the modern liberal paradigm, visibility is good - we should have a pride flag on every block and a drag queen in every school (I’ll get back to this one). However, this isn’t necessarily true. Visibility *can* be good. It has helped me in several ways, from finding ways to practice my Judaism in modern society to discovering that there are indeed people who feel like I do. But, this comes with a caveat that this should be at a certain resolution. Not every part of the LGBT experience has to be broadcasted to the world. It is fine for some things to be an open secret (and you won’t catch me listing them here!). For the reader - a good example of this at a smaller level which has helped me is the stereotype of trans women being men in dresses. This stereotype is very reductive and helps a lot of people pass, as the process of transitioning begins to medically, visibly exclude the transitioner from this image. If one were to broadcast to the world the qualities which make trans women clockable, this visibility could cause quite a bit of harm. Good thing that no one has done that. 

The Bud Light visibility is bad, as it satisfies the interests of one at the expense of many. The demographic which drinks Bud Light and that which benefits from seeing themselves represented do not have much overlap. When choosing where to be visible, there is a hierarchy of choices, and the wrong selection at one end can harm the actual good opportunities (Target).

Those who are most visible tend to be those with the most exaggerated personalities and quirks. This can also undermine the goal of visibility by defining a group by their stereotype, though obviously this is also the observer’s problem. A common critique made by some is that “trans women are a parody of femininity” as the only trans women they have been exposed to are Caitlyn Jenner or Dylan Mulvaney (not going to say my judgment on Jenner, but to Dylan’s credit, she’s always been like this, and people seem to forget that fact when discussing her). And to that, I would encourage those critics to meet the average trans woman. But, the image of a group will always be shaped by its most visible members such that the quirks, oddities, and personality of the representative will be incorporated into the stereotype of the group at large. This is not unique to trans people - those most outspoken about masculinity (Andrew Tate, et. al) overwrite the possibility of a more healthy masculinity being realized; those most visible regarding political issues (certain slogans) take over the policy goals of a party; and those who are most outspoken in a fandom shape the image of it. This is how things work - it just sucks.

What to do about this? When this article was forming in my head, this was my struggle - I can’t end another article at a loss for further action lest people think I’m not an optimist (trust me - I’m not like this IRL). To these ends, the solution was said by someone else at a group I go to.
If you resent this sort of false representation, the best you can do is prove it wrong. Let the shoddy stereotypes of the group you’re in fall apart when the person you talk to realizes that they are talking to a real person rather than the half-possessed egregore of every Fox News viewers’ beliefs of what a trans person is. “You’re not like what they talk about on the news,” may come to be a depressingly common sentence, but at least you changed a mind. And, if someone refuses to update based on their new information, that’s on them. I am lucky to have found that the majority of people are not like that. It’s hard work (not to mention rife with safety issues), but if you resent those speaking for you, it has to be done. I resent my life being characterized by those who have no experience with it. Groups and community are important, but you are your own best representative.

